---
title: M.E.A.N Stack Website - Part 3
---

This is the third post in a series, in which I speak about things I have learned or wish I had known when building my M.E.A.N. stack website; articles [one](http://justintullgren.com/m-e-a-n-stack-website-part-1/) and [two](http://justintullgren.com/m-e-a-n-stack-website-part-2/) discuss choices and installation respectively, and in this article I want to dive into the build process using [GruntJS](http://gruntjs.com/). 

I had first heard about GruntJS about 2-3 years ago(?) at a jQuery conference, at which I attended a few of [Ben Alman's](http://benalman.com/) presentations (Loved his talk on the [IIFE Pattern](http://benalman.com/news/2010/11/immediately-invoked-function-expression/) BTW). He mentioned it and so did the [bocoup team members](http://bocoup.com/). To be honest, I had no clue why it was useful.

Fast forward a year or two in my career and I suddenly had to start worrying about how the project I was working on was getting built. Mind you, we had a build manager who took care of it all, but all I ever heard about building our product was negative: it takes four hours, its not durable, and it is not healthy.  Then the build manager left the company, and suddenly we were all feeling the pain. My scrum team signed up for the job of trying to learn and maintain the build process. **IT WAS A NIGHTMARE**.

The build process was home grown; it had very specific use case functionality, no generality; it had no logging; and it was a mix of batch(10,000LOC) and c-sharp (c#) programs.  The code was not self documenting, had hard coded dependencies (and File IO objects), and was not portable.  **ugh* *

GruntJS on the other hand, has standardized on a way of doing things. GruntJS also has hundreds of *community proven* plugins to automate all sorts of build operations. The GruntJS documentation is great, including info on how to write your own build tasks. Finally, GruntJS uses Javascript, which falls in line with my original post of using Javascript for everything in the M.E.A.N. stack.

GruntJS is now portable as the grunt-cli looks for a local npm GruntJS task runner module in your app.  That means I can clone some repo that uses GruntJS, run `npm install` and then `grunt` and it will kick off the default build process.  This also means you can have different versions of GruntJS for legacy projects.

The GruntJS standard of "Task Automation" makes the code/config **very** self documenting.  If you followed my steps of getting started in my previous post, look at the Gruntfile.js. The initConfig function takes an object literal, which has members that are also object literals, called tasks. You will see things like "watch", "karma", and "jshint", all of which upon reading can easily be understood or google'd. GruntJS will look in the object literal config for each GruntJS module's config by using that name.

GruntJS tasks also have this idea of targets, which I find very handy. In the job I mentioned before, when my team tried to fix something in the build process, we had to wait until the build got to the point where the fix was applied, as the build was not modular.  This meant we potentially had to wait up to twenty minutes to test fixes, which is hardly efficient nor agile.  With targets, GruntJS allows you to run not only specific modular tasks like ` grunt:karma` to run my karma unit tests, but to be more specific. For example, a custom target for just running the karma testing task for my angular controllers: `grunt:karma:angularcontrollers`. Talk about self documenting, modular, and simple!

Wrapping up this post as it is getting wordy, the take away is to remember to read the documentation and remember GruntJS is a *task* runner. I'm undecided what the next post will be about, either the domain model and ExpressJS or the SPA aspect with AngularJS.  You will just have to show up to see what it is!

Thanks for reading!
