In my very first post, I mentioned that I had intended to write my website from scratch; and I still intend to do just that.  Now since I have some time at lunch, I thought I would share some of what I have gleaned so far in the process. Let's start at the beginning for why I chose this stack.

### Why NodeJS

To be honest, NodeJS is hip. And I like being a hipster... Though I am probably too late to be a hipster.

Another real reason, though, is I like the async programming style. In one of my jobs, I had to become familiar with c-sharp (c#) async modifier and Task library.  With LAMBDAS being awesome in .Net, you could end up with some cool async multi threaded code: 

```c#
var asyncTask = Task.Factory.StartNew(() => doWork());
doMoreWork();
await asyncTask;
```

Now if you break it down, you have essentially written an anonymous callback function (the LAMBDA). This translated very easily for me in javascript:

```javascript
var Task = {
    Factory: {
        Start: function(done){
            return setTimeout(function(){
                done();
            }, 1000);
        }
    }
}
Task.Factory.Start(function(){ alert('done');});
alert('Work started');
```

Calling asynchronous Task.Factory.Start with an anonymous function, which is just like a LAMBDA, just flowed really well for me. Therefore, getting into the NodeJS async callback style works well for me, even if it is only a queue and not another thread.

Another huge benefit to me is writing any logic in the same language. Context switching (even just a language switch) is hard and results in a loss of efficiency. I like this post on [Human Task Switching](http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/fog0000000022.html) which the author states that context switching cost his company three months work of efficiency which showcases that programming requires a lot to be going on in a developer's head.  If you have to lose that for a context switch in language (like what helpers you have been using) then you lose your efficiency.  Since I am developing my site for blogging purposes, I don't want to have to take all that much time context switching (say from business logic in javascript in the browser, to business logic on the server).

Testing is also **huge** in the javascript world because you don't have the luxury of a static compiler, in addition to testing being a best practice. The tools out there to test are solid and easy to use.

The community is also another huge factor into why I chose this path.  People are quick to help, quick to fix a bug, and quick to release new features.  Frankly they rock and its exciting to see it grow!

Those were the reasons I chose the M.E.A.N. stack and I am not regretting it one bit.  I will share how I got started in my next post, discussing things like yeoman and gruntjs.  

Thanks for reading!
